What's up everybody? Welcome to your
daily digest for Wednesday, May 7th,
2025, where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Today, we're kicking off the Daily
Digest with Strike getting into Bitcoin
lending. We here at the Daily Digest are
wishing Jack Mullers his very best.
Though Bitcoin lending is not
necessarily held in high regard with
entities such as BlockFi, Celsius, and
Genesis all capitulating in 2022. That
being said, Strike has a clear product
market fit and is used around the world.
And Jack Mullers does seem to be
somebody who is here for the long term.
So, best of luck to Jack. In other news,
Black Rockck spot Bitcoin ETF has topped
its gold ETF this year with the IBIT ETF
seeing 6.96 billion in inflows since the
beginning of the year and the Spider
Gold Trust only seeing 6.5 billion
inflows despite the fact that gold has
surged 29% whereas Bitcoin is only up
3.8%.
The Ethereum Pectra network upgrade went
live this morning without a hitch.
Congrats to the Ethereum Foundation and
all the builders in that ecosystem.
Pectra is going to make it easier for
smart accounts and account abstraction
to take place on the Ethereum network
which essentially makes it easier for
users to use Ethereum and reduces some
of the complexity for running an account
on there. uh layer 2 scaling data
storage blobs has increased by 2x
potentially making L2s a little bit more
scalable and there were also validator
node improvements most notably which can
help um institutional entities stake
EIP-7002 makes institutional staking
much easier to integrate without taking
too much
risk basically means that there won't
necessarily be as many third parties if
institutions want to get involved in
staking their Ethereum, which we
hopefully get to see with Ethereum ETFs
at some point this year. Additionally,
the amount of Ethereum that is necessary
for a validator to be staked has
increased from 32 ETH to something
around 20 something or another, which
will reduce validator node bloat on the
network. in an interesting think piece
by CoinDesk.
Um, Ether ETFs and institutional
staking. What's at stake? Long story
short, um, we're hopefully going to
start seeing less and less uh, third
parties that are used for staking
because right now institutional funds
hold around 3.3 million ETH, of which
the entire ETH that's out there, 27% of
the total supply is used for staking.
Um, an interesting thing to point out is
that the majority of staking is provided
by thirdparty service provider Lido,
which as we can see on this chart here
has an overwhelming majority of the
staked supply. And as a decentralization
maxi, we want to see that decrease. And
as we start seeing more and more
institutions get involved with Ethereum
ETFs, we also want to see it possible
for the ETFs to be able to return ETH
staking yields and for these
institutions to stake on their own,
which will decrease the um will actually
increase the amount of nodes that are
being uh validated on the Ethereum
network and entities that have skin in
the game to ensure the network's secure.
Uh we can see that Bitwise acquired a
staking operator earlier this year um
which acts as a signal that smart asset
managers are positioning for a future
where staking isn't just the back-end
service but a core part of the funds
value chain. So let's hopefully uh see
some more Ethereum staking in the
future.
Uh yesterday I mentioned that the
updated version of the market structure
bill was going through congressional
conversations and those were blocked as
the Democrats walked out of the uh
market structure bill hearing which was
led by Representative Waters. Um the
hearing didn't get very far as Waters
objected to the gathering because
unanimous approval is needed for joint
hearings. she was successful in stopping
the official proceedings. So there was a
hiccup in the conversation of the market
structure
bill and
um Representative French Hill, a
Republican chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee said a
joint hearing has been very very needed.
I understand the ranking member uh
Maxine Watersh has concerns, but by
objection to this hearing, the ranking
member is undermining the opportunity
for these two committees to engage in a
conversation of vital importance to the
American people. That's a loss for our
committee, the House, and the public at
large. Trump wants to see a market
structure bill passed at some point in
August. And the Democrats are basically
shoring things up and stopping the
conversation for this bill as a way to
show their um lack of happiness or
displeasure with Trump's digital assets
businesses such as uh world finance and
the Trump memecoin that he launched
earlier this year. Continuing on to
Trump's businesses, uh the World Liberty
Finance stable coin is now the seventh
largest stable coin in the world after a
$2 billion injection from uh
MGX uh was announced by Eric Trump. And
as we can see here, um USD1 is number
seven behind Tether, USDC, USDS,
Athena's USD, DI SD, and SUSDS.
So despite the fact that politicians are
not happy with Trump's family's role in
world liberty, uh we're continuing to
see an increase in activity uh for the
Trump platform backed stable coin. In
other stable coin news, Tether has
launched on Kaya, which is bringing USDT
to Line, a messaging platform in Korea.
Um, that has 196 million users across
Asia. Um, despite the fact that Kaya
doesn't necessarily have a ton of TVL
onchain is a relatively new network,
they do boast a large number of users
and onchain activities due to many apps
that are associated with
Line. Moving on, Visa has uh doubled
down its bet on stable coins and has
invested in the blockchain payments firm
BVNK or maybe it's bank bunk, I don't
know how to pronounce it. Um but Visa
has made a strategic investment. Uh bank
is based in London and processed $12
billion in stable coin transactions
annually and is expanding its services
into the US. Uh the investment
underscores a broader trend of
mainstream financial firms adopting
blockchain and stable coins as a faster
cheaper alternative for payments. So the
stablecoin narrative continues to emerge
in
2025. Um movement labs has terminated
its co-founder Rushi Munch. uh for a
market making token deal that seemed a
little shady. Um so movement labs has
launched move industries and has
announced that movement labs employees
tab tarabi and the firm is now the firm
CEO and will gains will be its chief
marketing officer. uh the move ecosystem
and move VM is largely starting to
become a new narrative of something that
is beyond the Ethereum VM and the Salana
VM for the next kind of grab for
developer mind share and of course move
VM was built out of developers who came
from the Facebook ecosystem. So um sorry
to hear about the issues that the
movement ecosystem has faced. Rushi is
also a former guest on the Smart Economy
podcast and um wishing this ecosystem
the best of luck because with crypto all
boats rise
together. And moving on lastly, Bitwise
has thrown its near ETF in the race for
the spot approval. Bitwise named
Coinbase custody as the proposed
custodian for the Bitwise near ETF. And
the near ETF joins a wide variety of
other ETFs that have been thrown into
the mix this year, including Litecoin,
Dogecoin, Salana, Ripple, Cardano,
Hideera, Polka Dot, Chainlink,
Avalanche, Aptos, and Suie. And
lastly, in US state news, the New
Hampshire governor has signed the crypto
reserve bill into law, making New
Hampshire the first state in the US that
can have a Bitcoin strategic reserve
after Arizona's governor vetoed their
bill earlier this month and Florida
redrrew both of their crypto bills
earlier this month. And that's today's
daily digest. If you want to keep up to
date with what is going on on our daily
digest, please head over to the Reddit
Smart Economy podcast subreddit to keep
up to date with all the daily digests,
our weekly spaces, and our bim monthly
podcast episodes. See you next time.
Cheers.